README.md, before:

# Project management

## Spring Training Days day 2

In this Spring Training workshop, we will take you through the life phases of a project,
teaching good habits along the way, and using tools you already know.
We will start at the **PRESENT**, where you will start your project.
From a few data files (adapted from [Hope _et al._, 2021](https://zenodo.org/record/4452678),
[more here](data/README.md)), you will create an organized project.
Then, we will track the project's history in **PAST**: you will make a changelog,
and create a 'project release' with a version number. Finally, in **FUTURE**,
you will archive and license your project so others can use it.

### Preparation
See how you can prepare for this workshop [here](preparation.md).

### Workflow
- Work in pairs ('pair programming' style)
  - One driver (shares their screen and performs the actions);
  - One partner (supports the driver, looks up questions, is active and engaged with the driver's work).
- Switch roles at least once:
  - The driver zips the entire project, and emails it to partner *before the break*.
  - The partner unzips all and confirms the project is complete.
- Ask for help when needed
  - Raise your hand in the zoom breakout;
  - A helper will join your breakout room.
- Write down questions to discuss with the group
  - At the end of each workshop-element we will reconvene in a plenary session to discuss it.

### Schedule
| Time  | Agenda item | Link |
|:------|:------------|:----|
| 13:00 | Kickoff & introductions | |
| 13:15 | PRESENT: organize your project | [lessons/present.md](lessons/present.md) |
| 14:00 | Tea break | |
| 14:15 | PAST: version control | [lessons/past.md](lessons/past.md) |
| 15:00 | Tea break | |
| 15:15 | FUTURE: publication & archiving | [lessons/future.md](lessons/future.md) |
| 16:00 | wrap up | |



<!--
Testing video embedding:
<iframe width="1280" height="720" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vgYS-F8opgE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Testing video embedding 2:
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vgYS-F8opgE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
-->

Commit message:

add license and remove commented code

README.md, after:

# Project management

## Spring Training Days day 2

In this Spring Training workshop, we will take you through the life cycle of a project,
teaching good habits along the way, and using familiar tools as much as possible.
We will start at the **PRESENT**, where you will start your project.
From a few data files (adapted from [Hope _et al._, 2021](data/README.md)), you will create an organized project.
Then, we will track the project's history in **PAST**: you will make a changelog,
and create a 'project release' with a version number. Finally, in **FUTURE**,
you will archive and license your project so others can use it.

### Preparation
See how you can prepare for this workshop [here](preparation.md).

### Workflow
- Work in pairs ('pair programming' style)
  - One driver (shares their screen and performs the actions);
  - One partner (supports the driver, looks up questions, is active and engaged with the driver's work).
- Switch roles at least once:
  - The driver zips the entire project, and emails it to partner *before the break*.
  - The partner unzips all and confirms the project is complete.
- Ask for help when needed
  - Raise your hand in the zoom breakout;
  - A helper will join your breakout room.
- Write down questions to discuss with the group
  - At the end of each workshop-element we will reconvene in a plenary session to discuss it.

### Schedule

| Time  | Agenda item | Link |
|:------|:------------|:-----|
| 13:00 | Kickoff & introductions | Plenary |
| 13:15 | PRESENT: organize your project | [lessons/present.md](lessons/present.md) |
| 14:00 | _Tea break_ | - |
| 14:15 | PAST: version control | [lessons/past.md](lessons/past.md) |
| 15:00 | _Tea break_ | - |
| 15:15 | FUTURE: publication & archiving | [lessons/future.md](lessons/future.md) |
| 16:00 | Wrap up | Plenary |

### License
This project is licensed under [Creative Commons Attributions 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
