lessons/past.md, before:

# Past

## Video

<!--
Testing video embedding:
<iframe width="1280" height="720" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vgYS-F8opgE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Testing video embedding 2:
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vgYS-F8opgE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
-->

## Reminder: workflow

- Work in pairs (or groups of three); 'pair programming' style.
  - One of you is the _driver_: they share their screen and perform the actions.
  - The other(s) support(s) the driver, by e.g. looking up questions, and being
    active and engaged with the driver's work.
- Switch roles so that everyone in your team has been in the driver's seat:
  - The driver zips the entire project, and emails it to a partner *before the
    break*.
  - The recipient unzips all and confirms the project is complete.
  - Do not worry if you have not been able to finish the exercises. You can take
    your project to the next step.
- Ask for help when needed, we are happy to support you!
  - Use the "Ask for help" button in your breakout room. (Note that raised hands
    and chat messages will not be seen outside the room!)
  - A helper will join your breakout room.

## Exercise

**Before you start:** Make sure you have received the complete project folder as
a zipped file from your partner. Unzip the files.

Your project is growing! As you are continuing, it is good to keep track of your
changes, so that work done with different states of the project can be
adequately assessed later on. Your job will be to start a record of your changes
(a '[changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)'), and create a first
version of your project. For this to make sense, you are invited to create a
figure with the data you have cleaned up during the first session.

1. Take a look at the changelog at the top of the page on
   [keepachangelog.com](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
1. Create a file in the root called `CHANGELOG.txt`. If you feel comfortable
   with Markdown, please [use Markdown
   formatting](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/), and name your file
   `CHANGELOG.md`.
1. Set up your changelog with a small introduction, for example (Markdown format):

    ```
    # Changelog

    All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

    The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
    and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).
    ```

1. Define the version of your project, using [semantic
   versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html). Make a first entry in the
   changelog, entering your version number, and the date. Be sure to enter the
   date in the YEAR-MONTH-DAY format:

     ```
     ## [VERSION] - YEAR-MONTH-DAY
     ### Added
     ```

1. Describe the current state of the project briefly in bullet points.
1. Zip the entire project, and save it using the name of the project and the
   version number. E.g.: `wooden-duck-situation-v0.1.1.zip`. Store the zipped
   version next to your project folder in your system.
1. Build on your project. The exact nature of this change is up to you and your
   creativity, but you could imagine:
    * making a plot of the data, plotting e.g. the number of hatched eggs to the
      weight of the birds, saving this image in a results folder;
    * describing the data cleaning steps you took in a 'methods' section of the
      documentation;
    * deleting your students' excel files from the project.
1. Prepare the release of a new version:
    * Describe your changes to the project briefly in the changelog, using the
      change type tags described by
      [keepachangelog.org](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how): n.b.
      Added, Changed, Deprecated, Removed, Fixed, Security.
    * Define the version number of this new version, based on semantic
      versioning guidelines.
1. Zip the project and save it using the new version number, just outside your
   project's main folder.

When you are done: zip the entire project (you do not need to include the old
versions at this point), and email it to your partner. They will continue as the
driver during [FUTURE](future.md).

Commit message:

finalize past and embed video

lessons/past.md, after:

# Past

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7GhMCBZG10s" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

_[View the transcript here](../transcripts/project_history.md)_

## References and links

- [Software Carpentry's Version Control with Git](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
- [Keepachangelog.com](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)
- [Semantic versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html)

## Reminder: workflow

- Work in pairs (or groups of three); 'pair programming' style.
  - One of you is the _driver_: they share their screen and perform the actions.
  - The other(s) support(s) the driver, by e.g. looking up questions, and being
    active and engaged with the driver's work.
- Switch roles so that everyone in your team has been in the driver's seat:
  - The driver zips the entire project, and emails it to a partner *before the
    break*.
  - The recipient unzips all and confirms the project is complete.
  - Do not worry if you have not been able to finish the exercises. You can take
    your project to the next step.
- Ask for help when needed, we are happy to support you!
  - Use the "Ask for help" button in your breakout room. (Note that raised hands
    and chat messages will not be seen outside the room!)
  - A helper will join your breakout room.

## Exercise

**Before you start:** Make sure you have received the complete project folder as
a zipped file from your partner. Unzip the files.

Your project is growing! As you are continuing, it is good to keep track of your
changes, so that work done with different states of the project can be
adequately assessed later on. Your job will be to start a record of your changes
(a '[changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)'), and create a first
version of your project. For this to make sense, you are invited to create a
figure with the data you have cleaned up during the first session.

1. Take a look at the changelog at the top of the page on
   [keepachangelog.com](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
1. Create a file in the root called `CHANGELOG.txt`. Edit this file with a text
   editor, like Notepad. If you feel comfortable with Markdown, please [use
   Markdown formatting](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/), and name
   your file `CHANGELOG.md`.
1. Set up your changelog with a small introduction, for example (Markdown format):

    ```
    # Changelog

    All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

    The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
    and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).
    ```

1. Define the version of your project, using [semantic
   versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html). Make a first entry in the
   changelog, entering your version number, and the date. Be sure to enter the
   date in the YYYY-MM-DD format:

     ```
     ## [VERSION] - YYYY-MM-DD
     ### Added
     ```

1. Describe the current state of the project briefly in bullet points.
1. Zip the entire project, and save it using the name of the project and the
   version number. E.g.: `wooden-duck-situation-v0.1.1.zip`. Store the zipped
   version next to your project folder in your system.
1. Build on your project. The exact nature of this change is up to you and your
   creativity, but you could imagine:
    * making a plot of the data, plotting e.g. the number of hatched eggs to the
      weight of the birds, saving this image in a results folder;
    * describing the data cleaning steps you took in a 'methods' section of the
      documentation;
    * deleting your students' excel files from the project.
1. Prepare the release of a new version:
    * Describe your changes to the project briefly in the changelog, using the
      change type tags described by
      [keepachangelog.org](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how): n.b.
      Added, Changed, Deprecated, Removed, Fixed, Security.
    * Define the version number of this new version, based on semantic
      versioning guidelines.
1. Zip the project and save it using the new version number, just outside your
   project's main folder.

When you are done: zip the entire project (you do not need to include the old
versions at this point), and email it to your partner. They will continue as the
driver during [FUTURE](future.md).
